docs revamp: synchronisation planning (#66409)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/auth/planning/index.md

Moreover, RBAC allows you to create your own custom roles and edit permissions granted by Grafana's basic roles.

## User synchronization between Grafana and Identity Providers

When integrating Grafana with an Identity Provider, besides the initial authentication configuration, we might want to consider user base and role synchronization. This will allow the users within a group to share the same configuration, thus preventing setting permissions for each user.

### Team sync

> Team sync lets you set up synchronization between your auth providers teams and teams in Grafana. This enables LDAP, OAuth, or SAML users who are members of certain teams or groups to automatically be added or removed as members of certain teams in Grafana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Team sync lets you set up synchronization between your auth providers teams and teams in Grafana. This enables LDAP, OAuth, or SAML users who are members of certain IdP teams or groups to automatically be added or removed as members of certain teams in Grafana.
```

> Grafana will keep the users in sync by actively querying for any changes. No need to worry to remove the user from accessing Grafana once he has been removed from the Identity Provider. The users will be labeled according to their Identity Provider for easy tracking.

Reviewer: Team sync only synchronizes user's teams upon login, so technically it's not "actively querying". You could maybe say something like
```suggestion
Grafana will keep users in sync by querying for any IdP team or group changes upon user login, and adding or removing the user from teams accordingly.
```

Reviewer: I also removed the last two sentences, as they are not really related to team sync. I don't think we automatically remove the users from Grafana if they've been removed from the IdP (but I need to double-check this). And I'd probably mention the labelling under `Internal vs external users` section higher above.

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../introduction/grafana-enterprise/" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud Advanced](/docs/grafana-cloud/).

> > **Note:** Currently the synchronization only happens when a user logs in, unless LDAP is used with the active background synchronization that was added in Grafana 6.3.

Reviewer: Ah, I see that you've added a note about the frequency of sync here. It probably doesn't hurt to mention it twice, as it's something that users are often confused about.

### Organization sync

> **Note:** Available in Grafana version 7.0 and later.

> Organization sync happens upon configuration with an Identity Provider. With the proper configuration, the roles defined with the Identity Provider will be mapped to Grafana roles upon logging in for the first time.

Reviewer: Technically, role sync and organization sync are not quite the same. What you describe here sounds like role sync. Org sync is only supported for SAML and LDAP, and also allows mapping users to different organizations (it's not supported in Cloud, as Cloud only has one org).

Here's a useful table with different sync (and other) features and info on what is available for what providers: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ISzqi0mcCs_KRGyvvKd-elMOj2S5EGjOXcUsw_eyxSs/edit#gid=0

Assuming that this section will be about role sync, some points here:
* we should clarify that currently we only support mapping to the basic roles (Viewer, Editor, Admin and Grafana Server Admin);
* similarly as for team sync, the sync happens whenever the user logs in (not just upon the first login);
* it might be worth mentioning that by default we prevent manual role changes for users whose roles are synced by role sync, but there is a feature to allow it (it's what Eric has been working on).

Moreover, RBAC allows you to create your own custom roles and edit permissions granted by Grafana's basic roles.

## User synchronization between Grafana and Identity Providers

> When integrating Grafana with an Identity Provider, besides the initial authentication configuration, we might want to consider user base and role synchronization. This will allow the users within a group to share the same configuration, thus preventing setting permissions for each user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When connecting Grafana to an Identity Provider, it's important to think beyond just the initial authentication setup. You should also think about synchronizing user bases and roles. Doing so will enable users within a group to share the same configuration, so you won't have to set individual permissions for each user.
```

Reviewer: What is a user base?

### Team sync

> Team sync lets you set up synchronization between your auth providers teams and teams in Grafana. This enables LDAP, OAuth, or SAML users who are members of certain IdP teams or groups to automatically be added or removed as members of certain teams in Grafana.
> 
> Grafana will keep users in sync by querying for any IdP team or group changes upon user login, and adding or removing the user from teams accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Team sync is a feature that allows you to synchronize teams or groups from your authentication provider with teams in Grafana. This means that users who are part of specific teams or groups in LDAP, OAuth, or SAML will be automatically added or removed as members of corresponding teams in Grafana. Whenever a user logs in, Grafana will check for any changes in the teams or groups of the authentication provider and update the user's teams in Grafana accordingly. This makes it easy to manage user permissions across multiple systems.
```

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../introduction/grafana-enterprise/" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud Advanced](/docs/grafana-cloud/).

> > **Note:** Currently the synchronization only happens when a user logs in, unless LDAP is used with the active background synchronization that was added in Grafana 6.3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Currently, team synchronization occurs only when a user logs in. However, if you are using LDAP, it is possible to enable active background synchronization, which was added to Grafana 6.3. This allows for the continuous synchronization of teams.
```

> ### Organization sync

Reviewer: I still feel like this description is a mix of role sync and organization sync.

Here's an example of the current docs for org sync: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/saml/#configure-organization-mapping

So I'd probably first have a section that describes role sync, and then in this section say something like:

> Organization sync allows mapping users from IdP groups to Grafana organizations. It works similarly as role sync, but in addition allows specifying Grafana organization that a user who belongs to a specific IdP group should be added to. This feature can only be used in self-hosted Grafana instances, as Cloud Grafana instances are limited to one organization.

> Organization sync is currently only supported for SAML and LDAP.

> ### Organization sync

Reviewer 2: @linoman , I'm not sure if I should review this section yet. Did you make adjustments based on @IevaVasiljeva feedback?
